---
layout: post
title: yating wei presenting evaluating perceptual bias during geometric scaling of scatterplots at ieee vast 2019 
tags: [lua文章]
categories: [topic]
---
### Abstract

Scatterplots are frequently scaled to fit display areas in multi-view and
multi-device data analysis environments. A common method used for scaling is
to enlarge or shrink the entire scatterplot together with the inside points
synchronously and proportionally. This process is called geometric scaling.
However, geometric scaling of scatterplots may cause a perceptual bias, that
is, the perceived and physical values of visual features may be dissociated
with respect to geometric scaling. For example, if a scatterplot is projected
from a laptop to a large projector screen, then observers may feel that the
scatterplot shown on the projector has fewer points than that viewed on the
laptop. This paper presents an evaluation study on the perceptual bias of
visual features in scatterplots caused by geometric scaling. The study focuses
on three fundamental visual features (i.e., numerosity, correlation, and
cluster separation) and three hypotheses that are formulated on the basis of
our experience. We carefully design three controlled experiments by using
well-prepared synthetic data and recruit participants to complete the
experiments on the basis of their subjective experience. With a detailed
analysis of the experimental results, we obtain a set of instructive findings.
First, geometric scaling causes a bias that has a linear relationship with the
scale ratio. Second, no significant difference exists between the biases
measured from normally and uniformly distributed scatterplots. Third, changing
the point radius can correct the bias to a certain extent. These findings can
be used to inspire the design decisions of scatterplots in various scenarios.

Date

Oct 22, 2019

5:10 PM — 5:25 PM

Event

IEEE VIS 2019

Location

Vancouver, Canada

[VIS2019](/tags/vis2019/)

![Avatar](https://zjuvag.org//authors/feiranwu/avatar_hu61e4b23320a4f1fb339f3a853a27d3de_90046_250x250_fill_q90_lanczos_center.jpg)

##### [Feiran Wu](/)