---
layout: post
title: Luang.Ng 
tags: [lua文章]
categories: [topic]
---
  * Get it from [github](https://github.com/scotte/jekyll-clean).
  * See the [live demo](https://scotte.github.io/jekyll-clean).
  * See it [in action on my own blog](https://scotte.github.io).

Welcome to the sample post for the Jekyll Clean theme.

A simple and clean Jekyll theme using [bootstrap](http://getbootstrap.com)
(not to be confused with jekyll-bootstrap) that's easy to modify and very
modular in component and element reuse.

It uses Disqus for comments and includes Google Analytics support. Both of
these features are disabled by default and can be enabled via _config.yml. You
can also rip this code out of the templates if you like (footer.html and
post.html). The beauty of Jekyll - keep things clean... Jekyll Clean!

The theme works well on mobile phones, using a collapsable nav bar and hiding
the sidebar. The links pane in the sidebar is available on mobile through the
nav menu, and you can do the same thing for any other sections added to the
sidebar.

Don't forget to occassionally merge against my upstream repository so you can
get the latest changes. Pull requests are encouraged and accepted!

If you don't have a blog already on github, start by cloning this repository.
Best to do that directly on github and then clone that down to your computer.

If you already do have a blog, You can certainly apply this theme to your
existing blog in place, but then you won't be able to merge as the theme
changes. If you re-apply your blog history on top of this theme's **gh-pages**
branch, it's then easy to update to the latest version of the theme. You also
don't want to have to deal with resolving old conflicts from your existing
history, so you may wish to to push your existing master off to a new branch
so you have the old history and start a new branch with this as the start,
merging in your _posts and other assets (after git rm'ing the current _posts.

Not ideal, but you have to make a choice - either apply it manually or base
your blog off this theme's branch. Either way it will work, and both have
their own pros and cons.

You can setup an upstream tracking repository like so:

    
    
    $ git remote add upstream git@github.com:scotte/jekyll-clean.git
    

And now when you wish to merge your own branch onto the latest version of the
theme, simply do:

    
    
    $ git fetch upstream
    $ git merge upstream/gh-pages
    

Of course you will have to resolve conflicts for _config.yml, _includes/links-
list.html, and _posts, and so on, but in practice this is pretty simple.

This is how I maintain my own blog which is based on this theme. The old
history is sitting in an **old-master** branch that I can refer to when I need
to.

# License

The content of this theme is distributed and licensed under a ![License
Badge](https://luangng.github.io//images/cc_by_88x31.png) [Creative Commons
Attribution 4.0
License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/legalcode)

    
    
    This license lets others distribute, remix, tweak, and build upon your work,
    even commercially, as long as they credit you for the original creation. This
    is the most accommodating of licenses offered. Recommended for maximum
    dissemination and use of licensed materials.
    

In other words: you can do anything you want with this theme on any site, just
please provide a link to [the original theme on
github](https://github.com/scotte/jekyll-clean) so I get credit for the
original design. Beyond that, have at it!

This theme includes the following files which are the properties of their
respective owners:

  * js/bootstrap.min.js - [bootstrap](http://getbootstrap.com)
  * css/bootstrap.min.css - [bootstrap](http://getbootstrap.com)
  * js/jquery.min.js - [jquery](https://jquery.com)
  * images/cc_by_88x31.png - [creative commons](https://creativecommons.org)