---
layout: post
title: evaluating multi-dimensional visualizations for understanding fuzzy clusters. 
tags: [lua文章]
categories: [topic]
---
### Abstract

Fuzzy clustering assigns a probability of membership for a datum to a cluster,
which veritably reflects real-world clustering scenarios but significantly
increases the complexity of understanding fuzzy clusters. Many studies have
demonstrated that visualization techniques for multi-dimensional data are
beneficial to understand fuzzy clusters. However, no empirical evidence exists
on the effectiveness and efficiency of these visualization techniques in
solving analytical tasks featured by fuzzy clusters. In this paper, we conduct
a controlled experiment to evaluate the ability of fuzzy clusters analysis to
use four multi-dimensional visualization techniques, namely, parallel
coordinate plot, scatterplot matrix, principal component analysis, and Radviz.
First, we define the analytical tasks and their representative questions
specific to fuzzy clusters analysis. Then, we design objective questionnaires
to compare the accuracy, time, and satisfaction in using the four techniques
to solve the questions. We also design subjective questionnaires to collect
the experience of the volunteers with the four techniques in terms of ease of
use, informativeness, and helpfulness. With a complete experiment process and
a detailed result analysis, we test against four hypotheses that are
formulated on the basis of our experience, and provide instructive guidance
for analysts in selecting appropriate and efficient visualization techniques
to analyze fuzzy clusters.

Type

Journal article

Publication

IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics

[Data visualization](/tags/data-visualization/) [Task analysis](/tags/task-
analysis/) [Principal component analysis](/tags/principal-component-analysis/)
[Visualization](/tags/visualization/) [Encoding](/tags/encoding/) [Clustering
algorithms](/tags/clustering-algorithms/) [Correlation](/tags/correlation/)

##### [](/authors/ying-zhao/)