---
layout: post
title: [Lua 
tags: [lua文章]
categories: [topic]
---
读书笔记： Programming in Lua, 4th Edition.

## 正常函数调用

    
    
    print(8*9, 9/8)
    a = math.sin(3) + math.cos(10)
    print(os.date())
    
    
    
    -- add the elements of sequence 'a'
    function add (a)
        local sum = 0
        for i = 1, #a do
            sum = sum + a[i]
        end
        return sum
    end
    

if the function has one single argument and that argument is either a literal
string or a table constructor, then the parentheses are optional:

如果函数只有一个参数，并且这个参数是字符串或者是table的话，函数的括号()可以省略。

    
    
    print "Hello World"     <-->    print("Hello World")
    dofile 'a.lua'          <-->    dofile ('a.lua')
    print [[a multi-line    <-->    print([[a multi-line
          message]]                     message]])
    f{x=10, y=20}           <-->    f({x=10, y=20})
    type{}                  <-->    type({})
    

We can call a function with a number of arguments different from its number of
parameters. Lua adjusts the number of arguments to the number of parameters by
throwing away extra arguments and supplying nils to extra parameters. For
instance, consider the next function:

函数调用时提供的参数可以和函数定义时的参数个数不同。不足的用nil补全，多余的话会被自动忽略。

    
    
    function f (a, b)
        print(a, b)
    end
    
    f()           --> nil nil
    f(3)          --> 3 nil
    f(3, 4)       --> 3 4
    f(3, 4, 5)    --> 3 4 (5 is discarded)
    
    
    
    function incCount (n)
        n = n or 1
        globalCounter = globalCounter + n
    end
    

## Multiple Results

    
    
    function maximum (a)
        local mi = 1 -- index of the maximum value
        local m = a[mi] -- maximum value
        for i = 1, #a do
            if a[i] > m then
                mi = i; m = a[i]
            end
        end
        return m, mi -- return the maximum and its index
    end
    print(maximum({8,10,23,12,5})) --> 23 3
    

Lua always adjusts the number of results from a function to the circumstances
of the call.

When we call a function as a statement, Lua discards all results from the
function.

When we use a call as an expression (e.g., the operand of an addition), Lua
keeps only the first result.

We get all results only when the call is the last (or the only) expression in
a list of expressions.

    
    
    function foo0 () end                  -- returns no results
    function foo1 () return "a" end       -- returns 1 result
    function foo2 () return "a", "b" end  -- returns 2 results
    
    
    
    x, y = foo2()                 -- x="a", y="b"
    x = foo2()                    -- x="a", "b" is discarded
    x, y, z = 10, foo2()          -- x=10, y="a", z="b"
    
    
    
    x,y = foo0() -- x=nil, y=nil
    x,y = foo1() -- x="a", y=nil
    x,y,z = foo2() -- x="a", y="b", z=nil
    

Remember that multiple results only happen when the call is the last (or only)
expression in a list. A function call that is not the last element in the list
always produces exactly one result:

    
    
    x,y = foo2(), 20 -- x="a", y=20 ('b' discarded)
    x,y = foo0(), 20, 30 -- x=nil, y=20 (30 is discarded)
    
    
    
    print(foo0()) --> (no results)
    print(foo1()) --> a
    print(foo2()) --> a b
    print(foo2(), 1) --> a 1
    print(foo2() .. "x") --> ax (see next)
    

A constructor also collects all results from a call, without any adjustments:

    
    
    t = {foo0()} -- t = {} (an empty table)
    t = {foo1()} -- t = {"a"}
    t = {foo2()} -- t = {"a", "b"}
    

As always, this behavior happens only when the call is the last expression in
the list; calls in any other position produce exactly one result:

    
    
    t = {foo0(), foo2(), 4} -- t[1] = nil, t[2] = "a", t[3] = 4
    

We can force a call to return exactly one result by enclosing it in an extra
pair of parentheses:

    
    
    print((foo0())) --> nil
    print((foo1())) --> a
    print((foo2())) --> a
    

## Variadic Functions 可变参数

    
    
    function add(...)
        local s = 0
        for _, v in ipairs{...} do
            s = s + v
        end
        return s
    end
    print(add(3, 4, 10, 25, 12)) --> 54
    

Lua offers the function table.pack.1 This function receives any number of
arguments and returns a new table with all its arguments (just like {…}), but
this table has also an extra field “n”, with the total number of arguments.

    
    
    function nonils(...)
        local arg = table.pack(...)
        for i = 1, arg.n do
            if arg[i] == nil then
                return false
            end
        end
        return true
    end
    
    print(nonils(2,3,nil)) --> false
    print(nonils(2,3)) --> true
    print(nonils()) --> true
    print(nonils(nil)) --> false
    

A call to select has always one fixed argument, the selector, plus a variable
number of extra arguments. If the selector is a number n, select returns all
arguments after the n-th argument; otherwise, the selector should be the
string “#”, so that select returns the total number of extra arguments.

    
    
    print(select(1, "a", "b", "c")) --> a b c
    print(select(2, "a", "b", "c")) --> b c
    print(select(3, "a", "b", "c")) --> c
    print(select("#", "a", "b", "c")) --> 3
    
    
    
    function add (...)
        local s = 0
            for i = 1, select("#", ...) do
                s = s + select(i, ...)
            end
        return s
    end
    

## table.unpack

A special function with multiple returns is table.unpack. It takes a list and
returns as results all elements from the list:

    
    
    print(table.unpack{10,20,30}) --> 10 20 30
    a,b = table.unpack{10,20,30} -- a=10, b=20, 30 is discarded
    

As the name implies, table.unpack is the reverse of table.pack. While pack
transforms a parameter list into a real Lua list (a table), unpack transforms
a real Lua list (a table) into a return list, which can be given as the
parameter list to another function.

    
    
    function unpack (t, i, n)
        i = i or 1
        n = n or #t
        if i <= n then
            return t[i], unpack(t, i + 1, n)
        end
    end
    

## Proper Tail Calls

尾调用：也就是在一个函数A的最后调用一个函数B，因为函数A已经执行完了，所以函数B可以重复利用A的栈空间，提高效率。